README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">
   WE BUILD Conformance Specifications (CS)
</h1>

<p align="center">
    <a href="/../../commits/" title="Last Commit"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/webuild-consortium/architecture?style=flat"></a>
    <a href="/../../issues" title="Open Issues"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/issues/webuild-consortium/architecture?style=flat"></a>
    <a href="./LICENSE" title="License"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-yellowgreen?style=flat"></a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="#about">About</a> •
  <a href="#contributing">Contributing</a> •
  <a href="#approved-css">Approved CSs</a> ••
  <a href="#licensing">Licensing</a>
</p>

## About
[WE BUILD](https://www.webuildconsortium.eu/) is adopting and adapting this repository, starting with [architecture decision records](adr/README.md) and the suggested approach to interface alignment described on this page. 

## Contributing

For members of the consortium, discussions on the ADR and CS processes are held on [open social - Architecture Group](https://portal.webuildconsortium.eu/group/architecture). Pull requests always welcome! 

## CS Process Summary for WE BUILD Large Scale Pilots (LSPs)

Conformance Specifications (CS) progress through the following process towards the Large Scale Pilots (LSPs):

![CS Process and Roles](https://github.com/webuild-consortium/architecture/blob/main/images/WPRoles.png)

## Current CSs

### Approved CSs

| **CS #** | **CS Title**                                                                         |
| -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| CS-001   | [Credential Issuance - v1.0](conformance-specs/cs-01-credential-issuance.md)         |
| CS-002   | [Credential Presentation - v1.0](conformance-specs/cs-02-credential-presentation.md) |
|          |
### CSs Under Development

| **CS #** | **CS Title** |
| -------- | ------------ |
|          |              |

## Funding

![image](https://github.com/webuild-consortium/architecture/blob/main/images/EUFunded.png)

The project is co-funded by the European Union. However, the views and opinions expressed are those of the author(s) only and do not necessarily reflect those of the European Union or the granting authority. Neither the European Union nor the granting authority can be held responsible.

## Licensing

Licensed under the Apache 2.0 License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with the License. The IP is handled as part of the WE BUILD IP agreement.

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the LICENSE for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.

Commit message:

fix: Repo structure and blueprint (#34)
* Create README.md

Readme for blueprint folder

* Update README.md

* Create blueprint.md

* Update README.md

* Create 01-executive-summary.md

* Create 02-regulatory-alignment.md

* Create 03-architecture-overview.md

* Create 04-integration-model.md

* Create 05-data-and-semantics.md

* Create 06-trust-and-security.md

* Create 07-governance-and-adr.md

* Create 08-test-and-validation.md

* Create 09-roadmap.md

* Create appendix-glossary.md

* Create appendix-history.md

* Update README.md

* Create README.md

* Update README.md

* Update 01-executive-summary.md

* Update README.md

* Create README.md

* Update README.md

* Create CODEOWNERS

Needed  in order to set BCG review ruleset.

* Update README.md

Updated with "How to work with issues"

* Update README.md

Fixed bad links.

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">
   WE BUILD WP4 Architecture Group 
</h1>

<p align="center">
    <a href="/../../commits/" title="Last Commit"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/webuild-consortium/architecture?style=flat"></a>
    <a href="/../../issues" title="Open Issues"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/issues/webuild-consortium/architecture?style=flat"></a>
    <a href="./LICENSE" title="License"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-yellowgreen?style=flat"></a>
</p>

## About
[Architecture decision records](adr/README.md) are lightweight architecture decision records (ADR) for each software-related decision affecting interoperability.

[Conformance Specifications (CS)](/conformance-specs/README.md) ensure interoperability and conformance by translating ADR decisions into precise implementation requirements.

[The Architecture & Integration Blueprint (D4.1)](/blueprint/README.md) provides the strategic, high-level framework that connects the detailed architectural decisions (ADRs) and conformance specifications (CSs) into a unified view of the WE BUILD architecture.

[WE BUILD Drafts](/webuild-drafts) are work-in-progress material and contains notes, exploratory material, and ideas that are not yet mature enough to be included in the official Blueprint, ADRs, or Conformance Specifications.

## How to Work with Issues

All discussions, feature requests, and proposals should be initiated as GitHub Issues.  

- **Labels:** Use `draft`, `blueprint`, `adr`, `cs`, `question`, `discussion` etc.
- **Assignment:** The owner of the issue is responsible for driving it forward. External groups may comment and suggest edits.
- **References:** Link related ADRs, Conformance Specs, or Blueprint sections in the issue description.
- **Workflow:** 
  1. Create issue
  2. Assign owner(s)
  3. Add relevant labels
  4. Conduct discussion in comments
  5. When ready, attach PR linking to the issue
  6. BCG-team review and merge according to branch protection rules

During its lifetime, an issue can lead to a number of different outcomes:
- A question is answered without further action.
- A question is answered and leads to clarifications in various documents.
- An activity to produce a decision basis is agreed upon.
- A decision is made and a change to the architecture documentation is decided.

Within each issue, everyone can contribute opinions and proposed solutions. 

## Funding

![image](https://github.com/webuild-consortium/architecture/blob/main/images/EUFunded.png)

[WE BUILD](https://www.webuildconsortium.eu/) is co-funded by the European Union. However, the views and opinions expressed are those of the author(s) only and do not necessarily reflect those of the European Union or the granting authority. Neither the European Union nor the granting authority can be held responsible.

## Licensing

Licensed under the Apache 2.0 License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with the License. The IP is handled as part of the WE BUILD IP agreement.

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the LICENSE for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
